# Lesson 02 — RSI Masterclass

- **Source:** <https://tradetravelchill.club/lessons/rsi-masterclass/>
- **Video:** Vimeo 727389684

## Materials

Download print material

## Transcript

[00:00] I'm imagining everybody has already watched the RSI lesson in the back office. So we can just move on from that and go a little bit deeper. So what I wanted to talk about first, was the actual word RSI and CCI. So basically RSI stands for Relative Strength Index. And the name suggests what it does. So the point of the RSI is to measure the strength relative to the move in
[00:30] that period of time. Right? So, why do we care about that? Because strength in a movement is momentum and when we're trading we want momentum. Right? We need momentum to push our trades in the direction that we want them to go. So this is why RSI is so useful because a: shows you the current momentum, and then there are certain ways
[01:00] to sort of identify when that momentum is slowing down and when the momentum slows down, that could be, it's not guaranteed, but it could be a sign of a reversal, or it could be a signal that you might want to take profit on a trade that you're already in. So It's very well named in my opinion, and that's what makes it one of the most powerful indicators in the financial markets, because at the
[01:30] end of the day, anything that you trade, we want to trade the strength of it. We want, we want to get into something and we want to see that get to our target as soon as possible. So strength matters. When we compare that to the CCI that stands for the Commodity Channel Index. And so both of these are oscillators or momentum indicators. Right? But the thing is, the
[02:00] CCI formula compares an asset's typical price to its moving average, then divides those by the absolute value. So it really doesn't have the same purpose as in it's working out an average over a period of time but RSI is more about the strength than the CCI is. And really all CCI is telling you is this bit here is the important bit. It's telling you that the asset is
[02:30] trading more strongly than its past trend cycles. We don't want, We don't really care about past trend cycles. We care about the previous move. We want to compare the momentum from the previous push to the current push. So some people prefer CCI for whatever reason. The reason that I prefer RSI is because it's more specific to what I'm doing now in my opinion. Right?
[03:00] So that's basically the difference between the two. And I've got both on the chart here anyway, so you can just see them both, but we're gonna concentrate on RSI. Now the way RSI works. So I'm gonna bring this up. Basically, what you should already know is that above 70. So this dotted line here is 70, above 70 signals overbought, potentially overboard. Right? And then below 30 signals potentially over
[03:30] sold. Now, in between is called the neutral zone. So between 30 and 70 is called the neutral zone. However, you can further break down the neutral zone. So, if you put the line on the 50 on your RSI, and I'll show you how to do that. So, if you go to your RSI and click on settings. You'll see here Middle Band, that usually, if you're adding your RSI for the first time, that will
[04:00] just come up as a great dotted line. So I just change it to make it more obvious because it's a line that matters to me. However, if you've had RSI on your chart for a long time, that might not be there. So just remove your RSI, add it back and you'll find it. This is just a standard one, but they've updated it in the last month. So, if you had RSI on your chart forever, you might not have this, just get rid of RSI, add it back and it will be there. Right? So that's how you
[04:30] add the middle line. Now why you want that is because as I mentioned this middle band between 30 and 70 is known as the neutral zone. However, above 50 is the bullish neutral zone, and below 50 is the bearish neutral zone. Right? So basically what it means is you could use the 50 line as somewhat of a support and resistance,
[05:00] flip kind of area . So, having a look at like what's happening right now. You can see we've come from above 50 and we've just broken the 50. And now,  if this were a line chart, it would look like the line is coming back to retest the 50 for further continuation down. So you would literally just be using that as a resistance line right now. And depending on what the actual candles are doing, of course because you don't base the trade just off one indicator.
[05:30] But, if everything else matches up and you were looking for a short, this would add to your probability of your short trade playing out. As long as your TA was all matching up, if this added to it, it would just give you that confluence. Right? So basic rule of thumb is, above 50  we're looking for longs, below 50 we're looking for shorts. Then what else I want to get. Oh, yes. So the most important thing however, is that
[06:00] when we do head into these oversold and overbought regions. It's not a guarantee of price reversal. This is, if there's one key takeaway that I want you to take from this lesson. It's that. Because a lot of people see price heading to oversold or overbought, or Divergence which we'll get to, And automatically assume price is going to reverse, it's not an automatic indication
[06:30] of reversal. All it is is an indication of strength dying down. Right? When we get up here and then you get the next peak isn't as high. It's an indication of strength slowing down. So I think that's the first part of what I wanted to say. Now, let's compare this wick candles. So for example, when we talk about the strength, I'll get rid of the CCI. Now that you've seen that they're not that dissimilar looking and I'll make this one bigger so we can see it as well, so let's take a look
[07:00] at this area here. So from here, you can see the RSI was underneath the 50 and then it pushed up here. So that it was this big bullish candle here. So just match up my dotted line. As we're going kind of thing, and then you can see here the RSI pulled back to retest the 50 and created a new Higher Low. And price pulled back and created a new Higher Low. And from there we turned Bullish. Right? Now
[07:30] up to here, this area here was the new High and this is where the peak, the first peak was created. Now, we have a little bit of a pullback and then we came up and created another new high and that created a Higher High on the RSI. So, what that should tell you, is that the strength in the upward movement of this price, of this asset is growing.
[08:00] Do you see that? Because the peaks of the RSI is getting higher. So therefore you would feel that this particular thing was really quite Bullish. Then, if we come, lets have a look here. So price pushed up here and we have this peak here. Then the next time price pushed up here to create a new Higher High, this peak here was lower than that one. So that tells you that the
[08:30] strength at that point in time, even though the price was rising, the strength was weakening, meaning this run may be getting exhausted. Cool? Feel free to unmute, if at any time you want to interrupt me because otherwise I'll just keep going and I don't know, if like you need more information on anything that I'm saying. So definitely this isn't a sit quiet and just listen to me. Feel free to jump in anytime you
[09:00] need to. Strength doesn't necessarily mean volume, it can coincide. It definitely can coincide with volume, doesn't necessarily mean volume. um, okay. So now we covered that. So what else I want to cover. Okay. Yep another one. So, let me just find anything. Annie Sorry. Can you just go back for a second? Where the
[09:30] push, when the RSI got weaker. Yeah, there was, that's also just before that was a Divergence pattern. Right? Just to the left of that. Here? Yeah. Yes, and that's the Divergence playing out but I'm not talking about Divergence. Okay, you're right, that little retrace would have been it playing out as a revert like yeah. Okay. Got you. Yeah, yeah. Um, okay. So the other thing I wanted to then talk about was now that we understand that RSI
[10:00] peak's getting higher and higher, in the case of a long, means strength is growing. And in the case of them getting lower and lower, in short when price is heading down means the strength is growing to the downside. What happens if you're here in this situation where, see here. I'll mark them out so you can see them really clearly. So we've got here one. Okay.
[10:30] So here we've basically got a triple top and if you match that up to the price, we've got the High. Oh what happened to my thing that? We've got the high here. How to pull back, another High, which was the second trip, second one peak of the triple top pull back. Pull back quite a bit, came up another high, third triple top. What do you think that means? Just a guess. Just take a wild
[11:00] stab in the dark guess. Pull back. That's the only person willing to answer. I just say this strength weakening as it's going up. Okay, so let me ask you why is it weakening, If it's at the same level? Well, I'm going by what you shared before with me. It's that second peak has gone down on the third hit when you see yeah. Yeah. The same level but the next peak there
[11:30] or I'm trying to point and it's you cancel. Yeah, I get . Let's just say all this is the area we're worrying about. So technically they're all in the same zone. Right? Even though I get what you're saying this peak here is a tiny bit lower than these two, but technically they're in the same zone. So that's just say that they are triple tops. There's a lot of you are saying reversal and the only other thing that stands out is it went under your resistance level  at 50,
[12:00] before it shot back up there. Oh, yeah. Yeah, but that could just be a pull back. So really concentrating on these three peaks. Alicia said not enough strength to push it up further. Anything else. Welcome back Alicia. It's good to have you back. Okay, I'm here. So you none of you are wrong. However, you've all made an assumption and you know, what happens when you make an assumption. Hell
[12:30] Yeah. So what it, when you see a triple top or say a triple bottom or something like that just a constant level where it's the same. All that means is that the strength in each push in that direction regardless of the pullback, the strength in each push is even. Because what did I tell you? A Higher High is an increase in strength, a Lower
[13:00] High is a decrease in strength. So a flat line would be an even push in strength. Does that make sense? Just give me YES. Just type Y ,when I say does that make sense.? YES!  Cool. There you go. So therefore, it doesn't mean anyone who said pull back coming wasn't incorrect, because that's absolutely potentially possible. But also the next push could be coming too, because the strength is even and we know like
[13:30] when we have a DOGE candle. The strength between buyers and sellers is even and that's why the price goes nowhere in that session. Right? So a triple top like this or a double top or double bottom, triple bottom. Whatever it is. Price getting stuck in one spot consistently is the tug of war where nobody yet is the winner. So, correct that this could definitely pull back
[14:00] from here. But also it's not a guarantee because strength could be building in that zone to push up further. Yes, I would say this is neutral and I would say, "don't draw a conclusion" from saying something like this. Right? Just be prepared. So, those are the main things to know about the peaks of RSI. Now another thing that I think is probably important to know is that Divergence and yeah, basically Divergence. That
[14:30] can kind of be marked anywhere within the RSI. So like for example, we know now that between these two dotted lines is the neutral zone. You could just ignore price. I'm just I'm just looking at RSI for the moment. So let's just say that was a Divergence. Right? We had a Higher Low there. And, but both peaks are in the neutral zone. For me personally, for my personal trading, I ignore that, because I'm
[15:00] looking for big moves in the market as you guys know, I prefer to be a higher time frame trader and I like to hold on to things for a long time which means I need to get the juiciest position possible. So that I can move my stop to risk free as fast as possible. Which means, if I can identify a Divergence when the first peak of the Divergence is up above 70 or below 30. And the second peak doesn't matter, if it
[15:30] falls into the neutral zone. It's just the first one. Then that, if I can identify the Divergence that starts above 70 or below 30, that move is gonna be a lot bigger then identifying it within the neutral zone. Now, if you're a day trader and you're just looking for a 2:1 risk reward fine. That's fine. You can do that. However even still it's going to benefit you to pay closer attention when
[16:00] the Divergence also falls in an oversold or overbought region. Hopefully that makes sense. So I'll take this off. Now, what else that I want to cover? So let's do Divergence. So Divergence, this is where a lot of people get confused. Now, there are few ways that of Divergence. So there's normal Divergence and then there's hidden Divergence. Now Divergence means
[16:30] diverge, the price is diverging from the RSI. So what does that mean? They separate. So, if price is moving up and RSI is moving down. They're separating. They're no longer confluent. So they're not moving together. They're moving away and as they move away that causes a change in Direction usually. Right? I can see that question there. Are divergences more meaningful
[17:00] on higher time frames? If you day trade and use one hour ,four hours. Yet, is this still meaningful? Yes, Divergence is meaningful on the time frame that you're trading. Right? So therefore in the yes, so in the case of when you're looking for Divergence, for example, you're looking for price to be in a trend. So let's just say, here price was moving down but you could see it's not happening here.
[17:30] But, if price, if the peaks were moving up on RSI whilst price was moving down that would be Divergence and we will find some real ones to point out, but I'm just explaining it for now. And then same goes the other way. Now the important thing with Divergence is exactly what I said in the beginning that when I was talking about being over 70 or under 30 divergence isn't a guarantee of a change in direction. And
[18:00] therefore it shouldn't be used as a singular reason to enter a trade. So , if you are entering trades off Divergence combined with other things, you are Counter Trend Trading which is not wrong. It could be part of your trade plan. So, if you guys know the RSI Divergence 1 hour strategy of mine, that's a Counter Trend Trade but as you know, if you know that strategy it
[18:30] is in combination with other things. It's not just the Divergence alone. So it wasn't. Yes. So just know that you're counter Trend Trading and there's nothing wrong with that. However, other than using it as a signal to enter the market, you may use it as a signal to exit. So how I said to you before that price could create a High and then a Lower High. However, sorry the RSI could create that, but price
[19:00] creates a High, then a Higher High. You might see that separation there. So, if I mark that out you'd see that. And that, and go, I might want to either protect my profits, if you're willing to write out a little bit of a pullback or X my trade at this peak here. Because I can see the Divergence and I want to collect as much as I possibly can. Right? So Divergence
[19:30] in my opinion is amazing if you're already in a trade as a signal to potentially take profits or protect the trade, meaning move your stop up a little bit higher. That's how I love to use Divergence in my normal trading, if I'm not doing that one hour strategy. I don't necessarily use it as a signal to enter a trade in the opposite direction, in the
[20:00] long term. So yeah, that's that. The other thing too is, it could just be a signal like, if you are a higher time-frame trader, and you know, if you're a higher time-frame trader, you live through these pullbacks. Right? That look like potential reversals at the time. And you have to just get used to that. Right? So RSI Divergence could just give you a heads up that it's coming. And, if you're a higher time frame trader.
[20:30] In order to not have a heart attack when it comes, you just draw FIBs when it starts to pull back and you're like, as long as it stays above 38, 50, I'm good. And you stay in, if it stay above 38 you stay in. So kind of helps to know that it's like a little bit of a warning that a pullback might be coming. So up to you whether you take profits or if you want to ride away. FIBs is the next thing that you add to kind of calm yourself down, have those chats in your head. Right? That's what I
[21:00] want to say about that type of Divergence. Is there any questions on that type of Divergence? What if Divergence is matching with the trend? Can it be considered as one of the indicators for entry? So Divergence isn't matching with the trend then, it's RSI is matching with the trend. So yes, RSI can be used as basically, a line chart. So and this comes into RSI bleed which we will get to. But basically,
[21:30] if you were to switch your candles to a line chart and chart this. Right? You would just draw a trend line from here down, and you'd be waiting for a break in trend and you would take a long. RSI is no different from doing that. Right? It's not so much in this exact section. But for example, you could have identified this and drawn a trend line and seeing a break and retest, possibly taken a long from here and had a
[22:00] little day trade up potentially. So you can definitely use RSI like a normal line chart and sometimes it helps you see things that you don't see on the charts. Like you can identify head and shoulders in an RSI, you know normal trendline breaks, getting an idea of you know, is it heading towards the 50? Like if say, if price is consolidating and RSI is consolidating, and then price once
[22:30] it continues to consolidate, the RSI makes a move to above 50. You'd be like, Oh this consolidation might break to the upside. So can be a little bit of a hint, if you're not getting the hint already from the candles. Right? So candles always come first. Now, what else is there? So what I want to do is, probably the best place to track this is because we've been in a nice up trend since 29k. So let's just have a look at what did RSI tell us
[23:00] since 29k? So first of all, you could see here. We had just touched on over solo region. RSI doesn't tell us anything really there. However, so let's just say we'll do it from here. Okay. We'll start from here. So you had a simple break in trend there and RSI moved up as it broke up here and came back, RSI retested the 50. So important to
[23:30] note here is, when I say retested the 50, it doesn't have to touch it. So when you're waiting for a retest, if you're waiting for it to actually do this, It doesn't have to, a retest is just creating a new Higher Low somewhere above the 50. Right? So hopefully that makes sense. So here is where that happened. You have this little kind of round off thing and that section there was showing you this is now a new support
[24:00] above the 50. So there could have been a long there. Now, we just follow with a long. Right? So, the first time we came up here and created this peak, we had this peak here above. And then the second time that we created a new Higher High in the price. We created a new Higher High in the RSI. What does that tell us? We know now what it tells us. Someone say it or write it. Same strength. Yeah, growing strength, because it's Higher and Higher
[24:30] So, strength is increasing. So, this is good. Then here price came up and created a Higher High. However, the RSI created a Lower High . So, if the Higher High here was increasing strength, then the Lower High here is decreasing strength. Right? So, that led to this little pullback. Now, the important thing to note that is the Divergence by the way. So important thing to
[25:00] know because a lot of people I've seen in Discord over the you know that I've been there. By the way, it's my one year anniversary at NBA on Wednesday. But what I've noticed a lot of in Discord is people say, "When you find Divergence, how long till it plays out, how long the piece of string?" So there's no guarantee of how long it will take. It's just the hint that it may come. So that's again why we don't count on it. It's just the heads up kind of thing. So in this case, it's here. It's also no indication
[25:30] of how much it will pull back which is sort of why it's not a good idea to use it to enter a trade. Because in this case, it didn't pull back much at all. Right? So this little retracement here was this Divergence playing out. Now, if you have a short at that like at best it was a scalp. Right? So that's sort of why it's not the best indicator for entering. Well Nana, they're really the best for confluence of
[26:00] your original trade idea or a heads up to potentially exit. Annie, so with that Divergence when it's gone into the overbought section there and the peak in not. What is it called? Yeah the overbought section. So, you would have once it created the Divergence you would have taken some of your profits there, or you would have been waiting for something else to play out as well? Well, I'm a Higher
[26:30] time frame trader. So I wouldn't take profits there, but it would be a good idea to take some profits there. At the very least. Although to trade. So you have been looking at it on the daily to see, if you got the got the same pattern there with same Divergent. No, no, no. You trade the time frame you're trading on. So, if I was trading the daily, I'm looking at that but, if I saw this on the four hour and I'm trading the daily, I ignore that. Yeah. But the thing too is, you wouldn't take it as a solo indicator. So that's why
[27:00] I keep saying it's only a heads up. It would have to match up with something else. So for example, if you saw this and then you looked left and realize that this was resistance. Then you'd probably exit the trade or, if you're planning on writing it long term move your stops to protect some of your profit or Draw FIBS on it to see how far back it might pull back, something like that. But Divergence alone, you don't make a decision on, just like you don't make a decision on Resistance
[27:30] alone. You don't make a decision on a candle alone. Like, you know what I mean? We have to have multiple things that all add up to the same story, you know that help you make your decision. So moving on from that. So we found that Divergence now and we know okay heads up, make your decision. Then what happens? So we got that pull back, that pull back, bounce off the 50. So what does that mean? Feel bullish? Yeah feel bullish. So we have, we are neutrally bullish
[28:00] because we're still above the 50. So lucky for us it pushed up again. And then here, this is an example of where I would personally not consider Divergence. However, it's not incorrect. 2, because again, we had a slightly Higher High by stretch there, Higher High there, and then we had a Lower High here. So we had another Divergence and this led to a bit bigger of a pullback. Right?
[28:30] So, no worry again. It's your second indication to take profit, to protect trades, to whatever. Then time goes on. It pulls back quite deep but it doesn't come into this section and then we get this bounce and then continue. So depending on how you trade, you might, if you were long term, you might then consider that the second touch of a trendline, whatever. Or you could now be looking for a new trade. So you would see it come down
[29:00] here to this level here. You're out of your long. You decided to get out and you're looking for a new one. So it comes down. Then it does this bounce here and create very much of a Higher High. Again, this is not the zone where I would consider it because it's in the neutral zone. However, it is technically just only just, if you go wick to wick which I personally go with to wick, not everyone does. Some people just go
[29:30] candle close, which would change whether it's Divergence or not in some cases. So up to you, but I personally go wick to wick. So in this case, this was just on a Lower Low compared to that and this was very much a Higher Low. So therefore that would be a long indication. Now, we reach the triple top that we talked about. So that means no decision making really, wait for a breakout either way and that
[30:00] was the triple top there. So now we're up to here. Then we get, that, I would probably call that a double top in my opinion. And this is now a Lower High. All right. So, again now, we don't have Confluence in the price and the RSI. So RSI is showing us whether it's Divergence or not is irrelevant. What matters is the strength isn't growing as the price moves up. Right? That's what matters. That's
[30:30] all you have to think about. Don't even worry, if it's Divergence or not. Just worry about are these peaks growing in strength or weakening in strength? So this here would tell me we're weakening in strength. And then again how to sell off. Now time goes on, we get into these peaks again. What happened here? Nothing really. That's pretty neutral. Then we have a big whale sell off. So let me just say, if there's anything here worth pointing out, not really that was confluent. Then
[31:00] we had this sell off which brought us back down to over. So we wait now, we've got really no market structure here. So there's not really any decisions to be made regardless of what RSI is doing but whilst we're waiting for this consolidation period, you could then go this is actually a good one. So you could go here. Okay, we've got this happening but we've got this happening on the RSI. Now you see it now, because time has played out. However, if
[31:30] I put on the replay tool to here. At this point in time you would have seen it as well. Right.? So therefore you could have, if everything else lined up your support and blah blah. You could have decided that was bullish Divergence because you've got a Higher High here and you've got a Lower High here. So let's just say you entered on this bullish engulfing and your stop loss below here.
[32:00] And take profit there. then I'll just cross this off. So, where are we here? So you would have ended up getting wicked out because it actually wasn't finished diverging it created another one, down here. So that again ,that's why it's not the best for entries because in the time it's easy to look back and see it. But in the moment, you go to understand a
[32:30] Divergence can can take one or two peaks. It can take three, four, it can take however many it wants. So you don't actually know which is why you have to combine it with something else. So that one there was a very good lesson about why you don't just take it off that. However, you can ladder in on peaks which we'll get to soon. So anyway moving on, had their Higher High. That's another one. So we had strength, pull
[33:00] back, weakening strength here. Hint to exit your trade or move your stop to underneath support. Sell off, now we wait again. Now, we get to this period of time which is similar to this one. So now we had one two, three, four five. We had five touches to this support line. And in that entire time, this was the first RSI peak of
[33:30] that support. We had one two, three, four five Higher Highs on the RSI. So therefore like, that's what I mean. The Divergence doesn't necessarily have to be two peaks. It can be five. So let's just say for example, you again, go back in time to here. Now, you identified that Divergence there and it was on a support line. So that would actually
[34:00] not be a bad entry for a trade because it lined up with something else and you decided to get in off this when this candle bounced off and closed, you got in on the opening of the next one and put your stop underneath there. And let's just say they take profit somewhere around here. And then time goes on. And then eventually, it breaks out and great. You're right. No problem.
[34:30] However, because of that what it did mean is that you had to sit in this trade for six days whilst it did nothing. Right? Now, that's for some people, that's not a problem. For me that's a problem. I get irritated. It's sitting in trades that go nowhere. So the better way to play something like that would have been to see this. And then wait for a breakout. Now, the other thing too, that's very important about this is, if you had have seen that, let's be realistic. A lot of people like to back test things
[35:00] and go. Oh! I would have done this and I would that. Don't lie to yourself. Be completely honest with yourself, if you want to get great, be honest about what you would actually do. Because for me personally. What I would do? If I saw this pattern, I'll take off my... Should I ? No . I'll just hide it in case we need it again. If I saw this it's a descending triangle at the bottom potentially of a downtrend. In that
[35:30] time, there was equal chance that this support was going to break as much as this trendline breaking to the upside, it was equal. So for me personally, I would not have entered off this Divergence. Because to me , it would be a dumb move on my part because I have a bearish pattern that looks like, if it keeps attempting support. Right? Now, every time
[36:00] you think about it like, you throw a hammer at a wall, the wall gets weaker. And this is what we're doing. We're throwing a hammer at a wall every time the wall gets weaker. Now, we don't know what the actual breaking point is until it breaks. But up until this point, we have to be prepared that the wall might break. Right? So therefore taking a long off Divergence is crossing your fingers and hoping you're right. When you, when you identify something like this. What would be smarter, would be
[36:30] to identify it. Look, when price is squeezing so tight into a zone like this, you're gonna get a delicious entry no matter which way it breaks out. So their really is no need to take an entry off support. But however, what you would do is identify that and then let the time go. So, let this squeeze into the corner, if you guys watch my market scans, whenever I draw triangles, I'll always say to you, this might break out here, but what I would
[37:00] really like is for it to squeeze into his corner. And the reason for that is because I want to see price get so tight that support and resistance is so close that no matter which one breaks out, I get an entry, really, really, good entry. That's very, very, close to the breakout of the consolidation. So in this instance, I would not rush in, but whilst I was watching this squeeze into that corner, I would be paying attention to the fact that the RSIs are
[37:30] creating Higher Highs. And that's going to give me a hint that the breakout's probably going to be to the upside. Now, what I'd be watching for is a Higher Low within the triangle. As my last confirmation or an actual breakout. And, if we spread this out here this one here. This here was the Higher Low. So then that would be my entry. I'm very close to the peak
[38:00] of this triangle. I've got the Higher Low. I've got that many divergence, bullish divergences, and we have hit support that many times and on the last time we couldn't get there again. That's when for someone like me how I personally trade that's where my entry would be. And it was actually I believe. Pretty sure, this is the trade I mean, but anyway. So after this close here on the opening of that becomes the entry, stop can be down there,
[38:30] and then take profit would be up here. And I've got a three to whatever 3:1 trade. So, let's continue on, it's just stop me Cat, if there's any comments that I need to go over in the chat because I'm not looking at them at the moment. Okay. So now we're here and now let's watch this trend. So we, let's get rid of this because this isn't relevant anymore. So we hit this peak on this High here and then we pull
[39:00] back, create a second peak here. The second peak was higher than that one which means growing strength. We know that now. And then price moved up and created a Higher High. However, it created a Lower High on RSI, which means strength weakening. We know that now. And you can see here. We had a pull back. So it's normal. However, when you combine that with other things, the pullback was to the trend line, if you're a long-term trader, nothing to
[39:30] worry about. You know the pullbacks are part of the game, if you're a short-term trader , you would be out, you would have taken profit, and you'd probably be looking for a new entry on support . Then what has happened now? So now, we're here. We've got this peak here then we pushed up. So this was confluent, this one here. So we had High, created a Higher High. Then we had a High, created a Higher High. So we're actually confluent there. But you
[40:00] know, we are at 67 case. So It was time for it to come back. But this is a good example that you don't have to get Divergence for price to pull back. So you can't like, you know bet the house on it. Price might pull back and you don't have Divergence. So that can be a thing too. So was that little story helpful? Cool. Okay. So now, there's another thing that I want to show you and it's the slow bleed that probably you heard me talk
[40:30] about. Now. We know FIL did it. So we'll go on Fil for the example. Yeah. Alright. So a slow bleed and it can go the other way as well, but we'll just talk about it in one direction. So a slow bleed is when RSI starts in above 70. So in overbought, and then slowly it trickles its way down creating Lower Highs the entire time. This bit is not it here, this bit sort of
[41:00] invalidates it but just let's ignore this peak for now. Pretend it's not there, just for the sake of learning the lesson because these peaks are hard to find, but sorry, these bleeds are hard to find. But let's just pretend this, this was creating Lower Highs all the way down from overbought to oversold down here. Over an extended period of time. Now, how long is an extended period of time? Again, how long is the piece of string? It doesn't, it can be anything. It can be Weeks, Months, Days. But not necessarily
[41:30] Hours and also depending on the time frame you're trading on. So you really just want to see it slow,slow, slow. Breaks  the 50, retests the 50, slow, slow, slow. That's gonna give you a hint that what usually happens. So that part is the slow bleed. What usually follows a slow bleed is a parabolic move to the upside almost in a straight line, so you can see that here. Right? In a straight line straight
[42:00] up because it's just been bleeding, the strength has been weakening and weakening and weakening and and trying to find where the buyers are, every time we head down. It's like nobody's here. Nobody's here. Nobody's here and then eventually they go. Hey, I'm here. Hanging out at this party down here and they they Rock up and they're life the party. So what happens in that case and that's irrelevant. What the actual price is doing at the time is completely irrelevant. So in a slow
[42:30] bleed you could see price moving up as you can here and then price moving down and whatever it doesn't match up to what RSI is doing. So that's irrelevant, but you will find at the end of the slow bleed, like when it gets here price has to be at a low or some level of support, right? So, um from there you can see once it finally gets there. Price shoots. Let me just draw this. Price shoots from the bottom
[43:00] up into a super bullish move. So this is a really good, if you can ever find them on the four hour or yeah, probably four hour, maybe one hour, you can ever find them over a long period of time then there's gonna be a very easy day trade that will play out fast, because it just shoots up. So hopefully that makes sense about RSI bleeds. Now, there's something else that I was gonna say about it. I can't remember, but it will either shoot up in a vertical line to
[43:30] the to around the 50, somewhere around the 50, or it can shoot straight up from oversold to overbought, and it can go the opposite way too. So it's not necessarily A take profit indicator, but it's definitely an entry indicator. So that's all I really have to say about the slow bleed. Is there anything else so in a slow bleed. Let me just see, is this a good example? Hang on. It's not yeah. Yeah. Okay. So here this is this is a slow bleed here. It's  quite
[44:00] volatile slow bleed, but you can see here Lower Highs all the way, from overbought to oversold. Point of what I wanted to show you now is, how do you get the best entry? Because it's just continuing down, down and you might think oh, well. How do I know? It's not just going to continue down. So first of all, when you are matching up a slow bleed, your Technical Analysis, you want to find the level of support that sort of lines up with where you get
[44:30] into the overbought region. Right? So right here, we're in overbought and we can go straight up, we can see these wicks off here, that lines up with this wick here, lines up with that previous resistance. It was previous resistance moving even more left and so on and so on. So you'd be pretty confident that this level here is the level of support where the RSI is eventually going to bounce. Now what happens then
[45:00] is you can see here, I've got this red line. So you can see that we have wicks below that support and here, you know, there's been candles in and out of it. So you would mark out literally that whole area as where price could potentially come down, if this bleed continued for a little bit longer. And this is where you do what is called laddered entries. And you know for yourself, if you're ready for this what I'm about to tell you, so I am not telling you to do
[45:30] this. You need to be honest enough with yourself, if you are at the level of trading that will allow you to sit through this. And the reason that I say this is because you have to sit through an open order that is increasing in loss as you are adding to it. And that's hard to deal with emotionally. So don't do it if you're not ready. And 1
[46:00] million percent don't do it, if you are not confident in your trading because the only time you would do this is, if you were very certain that you have found support. But you just don't know the exact number support is going to be. Right? So what happened, what would happen here is, you've identified that this is the first level of support but you know, it may come down here and
[46:30] that's not too wide of a gap. So what you would do is place a first long entry say here. Right? Then you want to, if it continues down before it wicks up before it changes trend and heads up. You want to be able to catch some of these low areas down here. And because we've got these wicks down here. You might even make it that wide. Right? So now, what you're going to do is then
[47:00] I'm gonna put the orders in first and then I'm going to show you exactly how you would split it up. So this would be the last order and this here would be the middle order. Something like that, around about evenly spaced. And the way I personally calculate my risk just to be on the safe side is I pretend that's my entry. I don't worry about trying to work out what my average entry is going to be, if all three
[47:30] orders fill . I just pretend that that's it and then my stop loss is below the wicks there. And take profit where this is not about the take profit. So it's not really that relevant but this would be how I calculate risk. I mean 1% risk on this order, if that's all that filedd. Now, let's just say that once I've calculated that it says, 'you can afford a 100 contracts'. No, no. Let's make it easy, 90 contracts, wait
[48:00] like no. No, we'll stick to 100. So now I know I can afford a 100 contracts. So what I'm going to do is I'm gonna put my first order here for 25 contracts. Then I'm going to put my second. Let me just hide that support. So you can see it. Guys, this is 90% of how I trade by
[48:30] the way, and it means I don't have to like actually get that exact number. Right? And honestly my opinion everybody should ladder their orders, but that's just my opinion. The second one would go in at 25. And the last one would go in at 50. Now. Here's the thing. Right? You have to be able to be honest enough with yourself. So let's just say price comes down, hits your first order, does a bit of a bounce and then comes down to second order. What you have to decide then, like
[49:00] honest I'm telling you have to be honest with yourself is, have you got it wrong? Or Is that wicking up like this? And it's just wicking though. It's taking that last bit of liquidity and I'm still certain that it's gonna go up. Or did I just get support wrong? Right? And I don't have too much of an ego, to admit that you just got support wrong. If you got it wrong, get out of the trade because you're only so far in for half the amount of contracts, or cancel
[49:30] your last one, leave your stop where it is and give that the chance to play out, because then you can always add. So, if you was to cancel this one because you are now unsure. When price did bounce here. And then created this Higher Low you can always add them there. So be safe about it, be honest about it. Because it won't make a difference. If it only picks up two orders and you're feeling unsure, cancel
[50:00] that. You can always get back in and add them here when you are feeling sure. Rather than telling yourself a story as it's heading down that no, I'm right, the market is wrong, because the market's never wrong. There's only one person who's transaction that can be wrong, and that's us. So, if you're going to do something like this, be honest with yourself, but honestly like, I say all of this and I'm cautioning you alot. But I seriously think
[50:30] every single human on the planet should trade with like laddered orders. I really do because it's just perfect. But anyway, so that's that. So what would happen is? Like, I just said to you. Now, as the orders are picking up on the way down that's called laddering. Right? And I don't know, if any of you have watched lesson 15 in the back office. I explained to you the difference between laddering and the next thing that I'm gonna explain, but I only showed you the next one. I've not yet explained, how to do a laddered order.
[51:00] So, this is a laddered order. So you're buying as price is moving into the opposite direction from where you want it to go. But only to try and pick up that little bit of liquidity, if you're lucky enough to. Then the opposite to that is called buying into strength, which is where you would still have this 25 contract order, price would move up, create a Higher Low. You add the other 25, move-up, create a Higher Low, you add the
[51:30] rest. Right? That's buying into strength, which is explained in that video. So I won't explain it here. This is laddering orders. So when would you use an order like this? In order blocks that are super wicky, and in slow bleeds, you know in my opinion. Does that all make sense? Is that scary? Is that confusing? Are there any questions about it? Do away with the ego. One million percent. Annie, when you're doing a laddered order, even though you're calculating risk
[52:00] on that one entry point, when you're keeping records of your data, your entries and things like that. Do you put in each specific entry? Laddered entry. that detail with your record? No, no. So , once everything's picked up, whatever my average entry is that's what I would enter. Um, Laddered orders in this case. They can be limit orders because they are lower in this case. It's a long, they're lower. The other way that you can
[52:30] use laddered orders. I saw Rachel's comment that it's stressful and hundred million percent in a pattern like this. It could be very stressful and I 100% agree which is why, I'm being so strict on like saying to you be sure you're ready for this. Cool. Are there any, um, other question? Oh one more thing about RSI is that it also can be used to identify support and resistance. So, let's just let me, I'm trying to find a different level than the 50. Okay. Let's
[53:00] just say around here. So, if I was to mark out this level here, I would see price one two three four was bit, it would bounce off here. And previously would bounce off as well. So this 42 level is acting as a level of support. Right now. Yes support. So therefore, if price starts to reverse which it did here. Then what I might look for instead of
[53:30] the 50 level. I might look for it to break that support and retest it and then open a short from there. And so you could end up in a little like, you know short from there down to however you set your target whatever, it's not the point. The point is like the entry. So that's another way to use RSI is just literally finding the number that it continuously bounces off whether it's bouncing it off and using assupport
[54:00] or it's bouncing off and using it as resistance. Yeah, that's it. That's my story. It's all I have for you about RSI. Any questions? That's your story, is it? That's all the way through which I use our side. And also Helen asked just on RSI. Is it actually measuring the volume? No, it doesn't measure the volume, it measures the strength, volume measures the volume. Well, that's all I saw in the chat box, if there's any other questions on this. I think you fried everybody's brain.
[54:30] All right. No, no. No, it's a positive. It's not a negative. I'll speak for me. I shouldn't speak for everybody else. As I could like I use RSI in so many ways. It's probably the one indicator that I rely on the most other than like naked TA. And I just use it. So I don't really think about. So I've had to spend this whole week thinking about that. I don't actually use this to make sure I cover it all. Yeah, it's just little things. I've picked up over time. Like, if you
[55:00] would have googled slow bleed, it wouldn't exist. It's an Annie thing, you know, I mean. Yeah, your own lingo. Yeah, like this  stuff that I've sort of realized and from overtime using it going, hang on when it does this, this happens kind of thing. Actually. Yes, sorry. Is there a time frame you won't look at RSI? You'll ignore it or okay. No . It's the only thing is I won't worry about it, if I notice something on a different time frame
[55:30] to what I'm trading, I won't worry. Like a lot of people like, if I'm trading the four hour and I'm in a long position and someone identifies Divergence on the one hour. Well, I know that's gonna be fairly weak considering I'm trading the four hour. So it's sort of like supply and demand zones. Right? The lower the time frame you go and try to identify a supply and demand zone, the weaker that zone actually is. So  yeah. Just stick to the time frame you're on, because sometimes you know, like flicking
[56:00] between so many things. Well I do recommend flicking between time frames when looking for a trade, if you can be a diverse Trader, but I don't recommend flicking through time frames when you're in a trade. Because it will psych you out. Just  make the decision and commit to the decision. Again, if you do are watching any of my live trades in the back office. You'll see a lot of the time I'll say, if I don't think a trade's gonna play out. I'll be like, oh, I think this one might
[56:30] not play out, but I've committed to it now. And that needs to be your attitude. And Nina says despite all the information. It was understanding. Thank you for the way you relay your knowledge. And I absolutely agree Nina it is so clear. So it's lovely, I thoroughly enjoyed today. Oh good. I'll speak for me. I learned lots. I'm sure those of you, I love the simplicity of your explanation. It's just and Rachel loves RSI. Especially, after watching your TA video
[57:00] in the main course. Yeah. Really. It's one of the ones like I've told the story before that when I started learning to trade, I went through every public indicator available in trading view and learnt what they all did. It was probably just like a completely unnecessary task, but it distracted my brain at the time. And yeah, this is one I stuck with. I just I really enjoy it. It's just worked for me. And Helen's asked: 'could we have thoughts on RSI for Bitcoin today?' Well Sure. How about you guys tell me your thoughts.
[57:30] Test. Yeah, it's the best way to learn is to use it immediately. So we were dealing with this section, what are our thoughts right now? Or is RSI not the right thing to make a decision on this right now either? That's potentially possible. Somebody has to answer. Currently all over 50. Yeah. So it's below the 50, but remember that it has to line up with something. So it's below the 50, but the next question you should ask yourself is. Did it also break a
[58:00] support? So if it broke the support and broke the 50 , you'd now be looking for a retest. But , if it broke the 50 and it's lining up with a trend line, you're not looking for shorts strong Divergence. Where's the Divergence? Which line to which line? If it breaks 43, where the last Low was? Okay. So let's mark that out first. 43. Yeah. Yep, that's a good level to pick. It could wait,  could mean more move to
[58:30] the downside, very good analysis. As could mean trendline may have broken. Million percent. Sorry Lauren and Bree waiting to see which way it goes over the, very Clap to you. That is the perfect answer. That's it. You're looking at a lot of things, not just RSI alone. So right now, exactly we mentioned that you can use RSI as a support or resistance. So she identified the support here which and she
[59:00] identified the price is currently moving down. However, if you draw this as a trend line, it hasn't technically broken yet. So what you'd be waiting for is to see, will we reject the 50 and then break the 43 , 44ish, retest that, which would cause us to break this trend line. And potentially even break this support. We don't know yet. Retest that then there did be a short or yeah a retracement.
[59:30] So yeah, perfect answer well done. I was talking but I was muted as probably looking too far back from that. Yeah. Yeah, so these from here to here you mean. Yeah, so that would have already played out in that pullback there. Alright. She said the same thing. Yeah, so Fury and Hammer said same thing. Yep. Cool. Awesome. I think we're finished, if there's no other questions.
