# Lesson 17 — The TBD Indicator + Understanding Leverage

- **Source:** <https://tradetravelchill.club/lessons/the-tbd-indicator-leverage/>
- **Video:** Vimeo 747622456

## Materials

Download Indicator Instructions here

Download Leverage Print Material

Download Leverage Calculator

## Transcript

[00:00] Alrighty. Well, we all have this PDF. So what I'll do is I'll just go through each individual step of what it includes, and then how to change everything, and how to set alerts, and all that sort of stuff. So we'll start. We'll just start by adding it, so just go to Indicators and you should have an invite only script. If you've only got a free account, this invite only scripts won't come up. So you'll have to actually go to
[00:30] the email in Discord. Go into the Indicator support And then go to the pinned post. And go to the email. And then is it there? No, it's not there. You'll have to go. Hold on a second. You'll have to go to Annii's, like Trade Travel
[01:00] Chill on Trading View, and actually just add it to favorites, and then it'll show up just in your favorites. So you don't have to have the invite only, you just have, it just has to be in favorites. But just click on it. It'll add. First things first. You want to go to your object tree, which is the thing that looks like the sheet of paper down here.
[01:30] And you want to drag them, Trade by Design Method right to the top above whatever you're particularly using. Make sure it's right up the top. And then what you want to do is you want to go to your settings. And you want to untick all your bodies, borders and wicks. And then that will bring, that will put it right
[02:00] at the top, and it'll take away all your original candles. So then it can't disappear behind the, behind your original candles. And then if you want to go in and change any of the Settings, they're all here. So we've got, what this section is, this section is just to do with your PVSRA candles, so the colored candles. And what this override chart
[02:30] symbol means, is if you click that, if say I'm on, I'm on, I'm on FTX, Bitcoin perpetual. But all these candles are based off the volume of the Binance chart, so that ticking, that ticking, that override chart symbol there will give you the volume from that candle.
[03:00] Then we've got the EMAs. So you got your 10, 20, 50, 200, 800. You can leave them. You can untick them, get rid of them. Or just leave them all. You can change the colors. And then what we've got here is the 200 EMA crossings. So what this, this only shows up on the one and four hour only. So if I go to the one hour
[03:30] and just wait for it to load, which of course it's going to go slow today isn't it? So where the 200 EMA's this yellow one, on the one hour. And that's where the shaded area and the little symbol is. And it's the same here, and then another one here. So it's just pointing out where the
[04:00] 200 rejection trade is possible to happen. And then after that, you can click off the vertical backgrounds, or the, or you can untick them all. You can change the symbol type. Or you can have no symbols. So you can go through that. Now we've got the possible Brinks
[04:30] Trade. This does not mean it is definitely a Brinks trade. It is the, it is just there to show you that it could be a possible Brinks trade. Then you have to go back through, and see, and make sure it fits all the rules of a Brinks trade. Same thing here. You can change the shape, where it is. The vertical background color,
[05:00] the size of the wick compared to the body. um So you can change all the settings with that. Then you've got your railway tracks. And that will show up on your chart as well. So I'm not too sure how that shows up though. Ryan, I think, can you see the railways just to the right, with
[05:30] little arrows underneath? Yeah, that's it. That's the 200 Crossing. Okay. So but they will stand out. You'll be able to see when it when it shows them. And then you've got all our initial High of the day, Low of the day, High of the week, Low of the week. You can tick this remove labels from High and
[06:00] Lows of the day, and it will get rid of the little labels here. Um, but you can't, you have to have, you just have to tick that to get rid of the labels. You don't tick this one, because then it gets rid of lines altogether. So just make sure you've always got this Show, Show Daily and weekly High and Low lines ticked. You can also change how many days previous it has
[06:30] like showing on your chart. So when you get to Friday, sometimes it can look a bit, it can look a bit messy. So you can just bring it back to like the last two or three days. You can change the side of the line. What side of line, all the colors, the width of the line, Daily Line. All that sort of stuff. And then you've got, you can change the color and where to position the Market Session information box.
[07:00] So you can move it to the bottom right, or wherever, wherever you feel comfortable with it. Now, let's go back to the PDF because that's everything there. So Yeah, we've done that. Oh the alerts. Let's go to the alerts. So if you go into here, and you've got your alerts
[07:30] up here, the Brinks trade and the possible 200 EMA trade. If you click those, then you go to Add Alert. And then you go Trade by Design, it will, it will automatically set those alerts. So you just go Create, and that's it.
[08:00] That's all you have to do. And then if it hits a certain one of those alerts, it will just pop up saying, it will override, saying oh not override, overlay saying what possible trade is happening. Um, let's go back here. So that's done.
[08:30] In addition to the allowed alerts, there are other alerts. So all the price crossing the 50, 200 EMA, you have to do the alert icon at the top of your chart again. And then if you go Markets Trade by Design, and then you can go. Is it all those ones?
[09:00] Hold on a second, I'm blind. Yeah. Is that? Yeah. Conditions. Ryan? Yeah, I think with this part, you just hit alert at the top of your screen. And then yeah. Yep. So and then on the drop down instead of BTC USDTPERP, just select Trade by Design. Oh, yeah,
[09:30] and that's it. Yeah, that's where I was going wrong. And then you can create all the other alerts as well. So and then you can just do whatever you want. So which is cool. That's a good one to do. Thank you, Alicia. No worries. And then yeah, we went through this whole section already.
[10:00] We went through that. All the EMA. And just while you're looking at that Ryan, on the, as we're talking about alerts, Claire has just said in the chat,
[10:30] "Make sure you're on the 15 minute time frame when you're setting the alert for your Brinks." So thank you for the reminder Claire. So just make sure you're on the 15 minute time frame when you set that alert. Yeah, so don't do what I just did. Make sure you go to alert and make sure it says 15 minutes. So There we go. Now it's created on the 15 minute.
[11:00] But yeah, I think that's pretty much it. Yep, went through all that. Yep, went through all that.
[11:30] Yep, that looks like we're done with the indicator. Or actually I will just show you one more thing with the Market Sessions Indicator. People keep asking me how to change it from the background to the normal one. It's just this. Tick it there. So if I do that, save, and then it should
[12:00] bring up all the colored backgrounds. Which it's not going to do, is it? It's loading. It's thinking about it. Yeah, there you go. So and then that will bring up all the backgrounds. Other than that, are there any questions on that? There's a few. Toin's asked where you get the three colored lines on your chart, the green yellow, and red. So I think that's just the Market Session.
[12:30] Yeah, that's just the initial High and Lows of the day. Where do you get the three colored lines? Yeah. It's just show the Daily and Weekly High and Low lines. So Mark's just asking, "Ryan when you were explaining the override chart symbol, just clarity on, do we leave it on Binance, or does it need to be set to the ticker that you're looking
[13:00] at? So you want it to the ticker that you want the candles to override. Does that make sense? So you want to, I think. I'm on Bitcoin. I'm on FTX Perpetual Futures. But I want the volume from the Binance Perpetual Futures on my chart, so it's not different.
[13:30] Does that make sense? Have I got that right Claire? Oh for ETH. Yeah, you just change it to the ETH Binance one. Yeah, okay. And then Sorry, just going back up.
[14:00] So Julian said, "What if you can't see Trade by Design in the alerts option? So can you just go back up to alerts Ryan? Alerts? So you've, it depends what you're setting. If you're just setting the Brinks and what's the other one in there? Um 200. Yeah and the 200 crossing, you just have to find Trade by Design here. If you're doing all the other ones, you just find Trade by Design there, and then you can select
[14:30] all these ones here. Or no, that's a good one. The version info at the bottom, that got updated last night. So take it off your chart. And then just reload it in, and it should be gone. That was just saying with the, because they had
[15:00] left the versions on it last night, and then they updated it straightaway. Claire answered this in the chat, but I'll just read it out for the recording. "On what time frame do you think we should set the EMA alerts on?" And Claire's just answered, "you can do any time frame that suits you, so you can choose. Just make sure that you're on that time frame on your chart when you set the alert. And Brinks is the only one that you need to be on the 15 minute time frame for, but with EMAs, it's totally up to you.
[15:30] I can only see the colored candles when I click on an EMA. Is that correct? That's because you haven't dragged your Trade by Design method to the top of your object tree. Oh, yeah. Thanks. Claire answered that too. Or you haven't gotten rid of your candles. Yeah. Thank you Claire.
[16:00] Ben's asked, "Can you add a Brinks trade alert one more time on the 15?" Can you just show that one more time, please Ryan? Yeah, setting a Brinks trade? On the 15 minute, go in to your Trade by Design settings. Make sure the Brinks trade is ticked. And then you can go to alerts. Go to where it says Value, Trade by Design, and create alert. That's it. It's set that
[16:30] alert for you. Okay, cool. So, can you just one more time, show how you changed the background colors for the Market Session Indicator? Yeah, so go to the Market Session Indicator. And if you want the full background you just take that box there, okay. And then let it load and it'll come up.
[17:00] Totally nuts. When I go to alerts, it doesn't say Trade by Design. I only have Volumes in option. No Trade by Design at all. Well when you go into Create alert at the top, and what even if, so you can't go to value and it
[17:30] doesn't show there. In the Value section, Oh, it's a free account. Maybe that's the issue. Claire, do you have any idea on that? Can you see that Ryan? Claire's just said... on the alert name.
[18:00] Yeah, Ryan, go on to the, on the top left where you've got Trade by Design. And just use the dot dot dots on the right. Yeah, and then Add alert. Yeah. And that should, you might need to close the one you've got open currently. But if you go through there, it should just default everything for you. Yeah, so this one defaults for the Brinks. This any alert function call, and then you can change it to, and then doing it this way as well.
[18:30] You know previously you had a whole bunch of other stuff showing up in there. So the Search rooms are down as well. Like okay, so if we leave it on any alert function call, that's for the Brinks trade. That's for the Brinks trade. Yup. Whatever I've got ticked in the actual settings. Yeah. Yeah, perfect. Thank you. Sure. And yeah, so can you guys try that? And let us know if it works. Yeah, that's great. I can't do that. Yeah must be because it's the free
[19:00] version. That's a shame. Okay. So three dots next to the Trade by Design in the top left corner. You just may have to take it off. You might have too many alerts set also guys. Like
[19:30] even if you're paying for an account and you've got x amount of alerts allowed, just go into your alerts Ryan, on the very right hand side of your screen next to your list. If you guys go into that little clock on the second one down, and see if you've got any alerts set, and you might have reached your threshold. So just check that. Because if you've got a heap of them, just you'll have to delete them all. Let us know if that doesn't help.
[20:00] Um, sorry Ryan. I'm just, if you change... Anthea, if you change the top one to Trade by design, does that work on condition? If you click Alert at the top, and then oh, yeah, it has BTC Perp, and then you can click down to hopefully Trade by Design that also brings it up. Yeah, perfect. Yeah another way if it doesn't work, you know what Claire said. Beautiful.
[20:30] Um is there an extension for colored volume candles in planning, as in to have the volume candles highlighted automatically for you? Sorry I was reading, what what was that one? So I think this question is asking if we're planning to
[21:00] extend the volume candles? Is there an extension for colored volume candles in planning? I'm not really sure I understand that question. What do you mean extension? We don't need any more. We've got that. We've got all the candles. Unless, unless he means like highlighting the I don't know. I think he means highlighting the volume,
[21:30] yeah, down the bottom. Yeah. We will be making updates, so you could always, like if anyone's got any suggestions, you can pop it in there in the Indicator chat. I thought yeah, you can click on the three little dots here, and visual order, and bring to front. If it's not, like if I
[22:00] hold on. If I drag my Trade by Design method down here somewhere, I can click on the three little dots next to it. Visual order, bring to front. And that'll bring it right up to the front as well. Sorry, I'm just going back up. The Session times aren't appearing for me anymore. The yellow, green, and red dots down the bottom,
[22:30] any ideas? Are you on the right Market Sessions Indicator? Because there's two. You have to be on just Market Sessions, not, I got rid of it, not Market Session times. You just need Market Sessions. I think, or is it? No, it's the other way around. No, you need Market Session times. Yeah, that's the right one.
[23:00] And then just click into it. Make sure you haven't turned off the visual accidentally. Sorry, I'm just reading through. Where's the extension?
[23:30] Okay. Okay, yeah. There seems to be something wrong with the alert, alert thing. So we'll get um Claire's here, isn't she? Can you? Have you got that screenshot Claire, that Julian just posted? Perfect. Thank you, Claire.
[24:00] I missed about the yellow triangles. Could you explain that again, please? So the yellow triangles are on the one hour, or the four hour. It's just the 200 EMA cross. So it's just like your little signal. You can turn them off if you don't like them. Yeah, it's just a signal. And it just, when it touches and
[24:30] wicks off the, or retraces off the 200, it will print a little Sim triangle in the background, but you can go into Trade by Design, and turn off both of those. It's just used so that it helps you identify like the 200 EMA rejection trades. And that's why it's only on the one hour and four hour also.
[25:00] Can you show some railroad tracks on the chart? Yes, and also Claire, while I'm bringing up railroad tracks, do you know how they're highlighted? I'm just... Yeah, it's only during a Brinks. Oh okay. Also because, so the numbers that have been specified here. So the 10 for the deviation with the railway road tracks, and the small wick proportion of
[25:30] 0.3. Those are the technical definitions of railroad tracks, and what's considered a hammer. So what you might do, so if you have a bigger tolerance for your railroad tracks to be you know a 20% difference in the candle size, you can change it there and then you'll see more Brinks opportunities than going by the technical version. So
[26:00] if you want to just see how it looks, you know, increase the the candle size here, and it will show you. It'll show you like a regular Brinks, blue background in the flag. Perfect. So Ryan, just on Ryan's screen. So Claire's talking about that Brinks section there. So the railroad alert is only for a Brinks, and the technical specs have been put in at 0.3. That's what's considered a railroad. But as Claire said, you can up that
[26:30] if you wanted to find some more.0.3 is for the hammer, for the small wick. Yeah, and then in the section underneath that, well with the railroad tracks, so if you just change that to like 30% for example, you'll probably be able to see a Brinks popping up. Although we probably wouldn't trade a 30% deviation, just so you can see what it looks like. I used 95% when I was testing, so Okay.
[27:00] Just to make sure the alerts worked yeah. I'm trying to find one in the meantime. It's because I'm on one hour. I mean, okay. Yeah. Julian did you was that answered? I think Claire answered
[27:30] that. About the adding alert is light gray. Yeah. Yeah, he posted a screenshot. Yeah, cool. Okay. Yes, so Claire's just working on that now. All right. Any more questions on the indicator before Donna does her next little bit? There's one from Dave. Which paid package do you need for the indicator? So any of the subscriptions will come with the
[28:00] indicator. It works on the free account as well. Yeah, I don't know if he's talking about like, Eva's first class or Cabin crew, Capital Club or or talking about any on Trading View. Oh, yeah. So any Tradingview, but in regards to TTC, if you've got a paid membership, you've got access. Yeah. Yeah, any
[28:30] membership. Just make sure you update your tradingview account name in your TTC profile on the website. Yes, and do a direct copy and paste. So if you're on this sort of screen here, you can just click up the top here. Go to hover over your name in the top right, go profile settings. And then you can
[29:00] you can copy your copy your username there, and then you can just go into the into the website, and just paste that into the into the Tradingview bit on the website. Yeah, and that's just the Profile Settings I think. Um oh Justin that doesn't matter So Justin's just asked if we use UTC(+10) on Tradingview.
[29:30] It's completely irrelevant. The session times and everything is all set to New York time. So Yeah. You just, you have it on whatever suits you. Like I live mine on my local time. Now, where can we find the PDF? It's in the email that was sent, and I think it's also in the support. So if you go, if you go into
[30:00] Indicator support, click on the little pin at the top, and then the PDF if you click on this link here. And then click on download Indicator instructions there. and then boom, there's the PDF.
[30:30] All right, your turn Donna. Okay. I'm just gonna go. Yes. It should be up there now. Did I record this? Yes. Oh, I just
[31:00] had a mini heart attack. Alright, can you guys see my PowerPoint screen? Yeah. Okay, I'm just gonna go over Position Sizing, Risk and Leverage, just because a few of us are having trouble understanding what Leverage is and when to use Leverage. So I've just made up a quick PowerPoint to explain it, and hopefully it'll answer any questions you guys may have. So I'm just going to define Risk. So
[31:30] Risk is the amount that you're willing to lose on the trade if it doesn't go your way. And we determine Risk by it either being a percentage of our Trading account, which is the recommended while we're starting out, or a fixed Dollar value. Stop loss is the price. Yeah. If you just want to make a full screen? Sure.
[32:00] Okay, set that up? Yeah, perfect. Okay. So Stop loss is the price where you close a losing position, and the Stop Loss should always be determined based on the structure, not where you decide you want to put it. And the position size will be the amount of contracts that you will buy or sell. Sam. The position size, it's calculated using your Risk divided by your Stop Loss. So
[32:30] for example, say you want to buy Etherium. You want to buy it at $1500 with a Stop Loss at $1480, and you want to risk 1% of your account size, a $1,000. Then you can work it out. That equals $10. Your Stop loss will be 0.0133 which is 1.3%. So based on that your position size is $750.
[33:00] And then this is where leverage comes in. So Leverage is used as a form to free up your Capital. So from that example, you can either use your $1,000 to buy $750 worth, or you can use Leverage to free up your Capital. So it'll act as a divider to how much margin you want to enter the trade. So say you want to 10x. You'll only
[33:30] need to put up 10% of that. So $75, and then the rest you'll borrow from the Exchange. So I have a little summary here to show you the different leverage, and how much it'll cost you to enter. You'll notice that the Return on Investment, which is that percentage value, like it may seem huge, but in the scheme of things, it makes no difference. Because your p&amp;l is actually calculated based on the margin that
[34:00] you use to enter the trade. So by increasing your leverage, it's not going to make you win more money or anything. Only increasing your position size will do that, and to do that you can only increase your risk. So, I hope that explains it. We have a Trade Journal which you can use that, and it'll calculate all of that for you. So all you need to do really is input everything
[34:30] into the Trade Journal and it'll tell you what to enter into your OKX or Exchange. Let me just change my screen. While you're doing that Donna, a couple of people are just asking, these slides can be put in Discord somewhere? So maybe under Resources, under the Resources
[35:00] Channel. Maybe you can tag everyone when you get a chance to pop it in Donna. I think Annii's gonna upload it. Annii's gonna upload it in the Materials tab. Oh great. Because she's gonna, she's actually gonna upload this Leverage into the Market Maker course part as well. So yeah, and then you'll be able to look at the Materials tab. Yeah, well yeah. Well then we'll definitely find them when they're up. So you know where to find them. Okay. So here's the Trade Journal. So say
[35:30] your Account size $1000. You want to enter the trade, you want to risk 1% of your account. You want leverage of 10. Entry Price, 1500.
[36:00] So here, the Journal will calculate it all for you, and then you just basically enter in the values into your exchange and that's all you'll need to do. So you won't have to work it out yourself, so it's pretty simple.
[36:30] Well, and yeah, that's all. Just gonna go through the questions. Did anyone have any questions on this? I think that, I think the biggest part of it is, regardless of the size you go leverage, you're
[37:00] making the same amount of money. And you're going to cost yourself more in fees than you are going to make. So really, you're not gonna make the same amount of money if you're on a higher leverage, because you're fees are going to be more. Yeah, so and that's because the fees are calculated on the entire Position Size which is obviously, increases with the leverage. Is that right? Did I work that right. Yeah, so if you don't need to free up additional Capital,
[37:30] if you're only doing one trade at a time, for example, while you're learning, it's not overly necessary. There's a question for you there, Donna. Percentage of account risk is the bit I'm not sure about. So that's just how much of your Account you're willing to lose per trade. So as a recommendation while you're starting out, it's only about 1% of your account size.
[38:00] So it's not shown on OKX, but it's like a predetermined amount that you set for yourself that you want to risk losing. So that's exactly what the Journal's giving you up there. So, hold on a second, I can annotate. See this section here. If you just can all see me annotating. Yeah, if you can change that to whatever you want to risk of your account, and then the
[38:30] position size and what you've got to risk, and what you have to enter into OKX is gonna come up here. I'm right there, Donna. Aren't I Yeah, yeah, so that means that at 1%, you're only, if you were wrong in your trade, you'll only lose $10. Because you're only risking the 1% of the $1,000 of your account. And Market can be shown in OKX. There's
[39:00] a slider when you enter a position, basically asking how large do you want your position to be. You can actually just slide that across until you see, like if 1% of your account is $10, just slide it across until it says $10. It's US, usually if we're trading USDT pairs though, just make sure you know what the USD amount is, and that's a really quick way to do it. So it will show
[39:30] it in OKX. Does OKX have the slide by now? It does, but I find that I just enter in exactly what I have here. And it calculates everything for me. Might have to switch to OKX. Binance UK doesn't allow leverage from non-pro traders. I'm not sure about the UK. Sorry. If you are from the UK, you
[40:00] can use the coupon I'm using... Annii was using another one. Bitget? Yeah, you can use Bitget there as well. Thank you, Alex. If you're still there, Claire's got some feedback on the alert for you in the chat.
[40:30] I just have a question guys regarding the position. I don't know if OKX, but on Kucoin, let's say for example, you enter a position which is 1% of your account, and there's a, there's an option that you can use to increase your position size. I'm asking if you do that, you will increase your overall PnL or it just help you with liquidation limit.
[41:00] So are you saying that, so in your Exchange you can increase the actual Position size? Yes, so I, for example I've decided to enter with 1% and I have my liquidation level let's say like 19k. And if I press the option and add 2% more to that Position, it will increase my liquidation to
[41:30] I don't know, 70k. Um, I think that will only depend on what price you enter the second lot of position, and they'll just take it out to that bridge I'm guessing. Yeah, I'm referring to the same position. That's the tricky thing. I mean, that's the thing that I don't understand, because they let you add more money to your initial position.
[42:00] Mm-hmm, then you probably should be using the Staggered Entry calculator. Do you want to show that quickly Donna while you've got the screen up? So if you wanted to do a couple of different Entry positions Alex, you can calculate it all here. Donna's just showing us now. Thank you.
[42:30] Yeah.
[43:00] While you're doing that Donna. Sorry you go first. It'll calculated it all for you here. Alex Yes, I see. Thank you. No worries. Um, everyone that is having trouble setting the alerts, Claire's just said you have to remove the indicator from your chart completely exiting Trading View
[43:30] and when you go back into Trading View, make sure the lock next to your, hold on, I'm just gonna share my screen. I'll show you guys. Hold on a second move you guys the other way. So if you're having trouble setting the alerts, when you go into Indicators, and invite only scripts, see how mine
[44:00] is green. If yours is red, you need to take the indicator completely off your chart. And then exit, sign out of Trading View. Close it, come back in, and then hopefully it should be green when you come back. And then yeah, you should be good to go.
[44:30] Okay, so we've got another Leverage question Donna. If you're using 10x leverage for example, would you typically have 90% of your Portfolio out of Trades? Yeah. pretty much.
[45:00] Um Claire's just said, please just mention that I tested that on a free Tradingview account. So there really shouldn't be any issues for free Tradingview users either. So it should be for everyone. You'd just be limited to the amount of alerts you can actually set on Tradingview because of the free version. All right,
[45:30] are the leverage and the Indicator questions done? Thanks so much Claire for helping us with all of that. Thank you Claire. And we just have a few questions from the Discord as well. Oh, yeah? Okay, stop loss placement on EMA retest.
[46:00] Okay, so if you get a nice a nice hammer off the retest, if we took this M here, took this M, came down, came back up, and we got this hammer here, you can just protect that one hammer, and then you should be good to go.
[46:30] Which would have been a really juicy trade last night. So obviously it'll be different all the time depending on the structure to the left. It would depend on wicks and things like that, but really if you've got, you know some people might prefer to cover like the second peak of the M. But if you're entering in on a Retest, a 50EMA Retest, you should be able to tighten it up a little bit. But just yeah, make sure
[47:00] you've got any wicks covered and all the EMAs, that EMA cluster there would have needed to be covered too. Yeah, it'll differ a little bit. Another question. Where to place Entries and target Profits? That's a very very broad
[47:30] question. Well, the Entries are covered in the lessons. There's a quite a large for variety of Entries that you can take within the Method, and 2nd Peak Ms and Ws. 50 EMA retests, three hits to the high or low, 200 EMA hammer rejection. So it can go quite deep. So I
[48:00] would recommend completing the course, and then trying all of them and seeing what works. But as far as take taking profit, you've got your levels, so your Highs and your Lows of the day, you've got your EMAs and you've got your Vector candles. That would be it for Targets, wouldn't it? Yeah. Yeah, and then the last question in there is View Indicator question. Any way to change initial High,
[48:30] initial Low of the day and initial High of the day to bodies instead of wicks. Nah. It's to the wicks. That's the right way we should do it. That's the correct way. Yeah. Also the initial High and Low of the day stop at the 2 AM extension as well. So then, you can actually see if it's extending out or not. If it helps you visually, just draw a little box around the bodies. I do that sometimes if we've got
[49:00] a really nice boardroom, and then you know that might visually please you a little bit more. It might help you identify what the MM is doing more. I just thought that with a rectangle. Any reason why you guys use the Trading View website instead of the desktop app? I like to have the website, because then I can just flick between my Trading Lite, my Hyblock, all my news events. Like I just flick between everything. If
[49:30] I'm on the app, I've got to get out of it, and then come back to the website. And yeah. There's a Trading Lite app as well. I use all the apps on my computer. I've already got three screens Dustin. It's just not enough. I need six.
[50:00] Another question here. Would it have been easy to tell? There was going to be a big drop that short on your Tradingview. How would you have identified it? Well, yes, it was quite in our face last night, and me and Alicia both ignored it. But yeah, I probably would have taken this bigger M here. This one would have made more sense to me last night.
[50:30] It did make more sense to me and I ignored it. So but yeah, this retest, it would have, because we would have been we would have been right here. And then if we had have gone one more way too quickly. Hold on a second. They do that again.
[51:00] So it would have been here and then we would have had our hammer off the 50 EMA, right there. Like that would have been our entry. So you see the blue line is our 50. We've had a hammer off the 50, after it broke through with Volume here. We came down, retested that
[51:30] hammer. Then that's our entry. And then it happened quite quickly. Jesus. Katie, I think that's been answered in the chat, but just that drawing tool for the Ms is the path tool, which is on the very left,
[52:00] four icons down. It's in that section there. Yeah. Get the drawing one. So Toein, how do you determine where to place your entries? There are so many factors to be considered. A lot of it's your personal risk at the time. What your Journal
[52:30] is telling you you're good at, what session you're in, where we are in the cycle and what level we're at. You really have to piece it all together like a jigsaw puzzle. So when you sit down at your computer for the first time during the day, check the liquidation posts that Donna's put up. If you've got Trading Lite, you can look at that. You would start by going three to five days back, find your
[53:00] peak formation High or Low, assess where we are in the cycle, whether we've had an M or a W. Is there a news event? So there's a lot you have to take into account, but it's not as complicated as it sounds. There is a lot that it becomes second nature. You just have to, most important thing would be to know where we are in the cycle, I think. Now you've got the Indicator. Your levels are all there.
[53:30] You know that if you see an M sort of in the middle of structure, in the middle of nowhere, you know that you can ignore that. You could, I mean as a beginner, your entry, your best entry option would always be the Retest, like Ryan just showed Damon. So a Retest after an M or W. And just catching the Rise or Drop level 2, and then you would exit at the bottom of that as soon as you get a boardroom
[54:00] or a Stopping Volume candle or something like that. So after that purple one. Yeah, so focus on that for now while the rest is overwhelming. But as long as you're watching the Market scans and Annii's YouTubes in particular, it will come together so quickly, but there is a lot that we have to think about when we're charting initially. It took us a good two to three
[54:30] months before we really started to get the hang of it. Like it's not, it's not a get rich quick scheme. This is a watch the charts and learn for a good six months, like it's not a, and go in through the content. Yeah, exactly right. Notes. Notes. Notes. The more notes you can take the better. Especially on the finer details because they're the important ones.
[55:00] And Claire just wanted to add something. Alerts set on Monday should be good for the week. You just need to reset them every Monday. For example, you can set an alert for the Low of the week on a Monday and that will stay active for the whole week. But once you go to a new week, you'll have to reset that. That's a really good point Claire thank you. And that's just because that sort of becomes irrelevant. That's last week's level kind of
[55:30] thing really. Okay. So you use reversal candles as entry points. Well for that 50 EMA retest entry, which is probably the safest entry for beginners. Yes. So a rejection candle or pattern at the EMA. So it could be a railroad track, or it could be a hammer/inverted hammer.
[56:00] Bullish or Bearish engulfing. Sometimes you even see like morning stars and things like that. But like a hammer, or Railroad tracks is usually nice. Chris Russia. As I mentioned earlier, that was a one minute drop. Yeah. Yeah. It just went back on the one minute. There was also two opportunities to enter on this 50 retest, because this, you
[56:30] could have entered here as well. So that was another hammer there. Yeah. Cool. Quick question about current price action. Do you reckon we are at the first drop and still have two more to go on the one hour time frame? Yes. Oh.
[57:00] Well, that could have been a straightaway. Yeah. Yeah. Well, I'm really not looking at the one hour to be honest. Because it doesn't seem to be playing out there. It's playing out on either the Daily, the four hour, or the 15 minute. They're the three I'm really watching because the one hour is not clear. If you were looking at that as purely an M on the one hour, you would probably call that a level 1 drop. Yeah level 1. Yeah.
[57:30] But usually they're not that significant, the level 1 drops, are they? Like they generally just break and retest the 50. So like I'm not even sure we'll get a 50 EMA retest opportunity on this one. I think We might have to watch the EMAs. Yeah, either the 10 or 20. When you get like such a dramatic drop like that. It's not gonna retrace back to the 50. So I'll be keeping an eye on the 10 and 20. Um, but I'm thinking that might also be a straightaway trade,
[58:00] because it happened so fast as well. Yeah, but the straightaways only happen in Drop level 2. Level 1 and 2. It's level 1 and 2 that's a straightaway. From level 1 into level 2. Yes, yeah. Just yeah, if you think. Oh yeah, depends how you count your M. Yeah. Where's your M? Like, like it's just it's just too messy on
[58:30] the one hour. Like 15 minute, we could have, really it looks like two Drops. So we had one drop here, two drops here. And we'll probably get one more. Which would make sense. Yeah. And another question, what typically do different session times do to one another? So that's covered in I think the first lesson,
[59:00] like the weekly cycle. So it talks about like your typical structure, the daily. Yeah, the Daily yeah. Yeah second lesson, so typically Asia will consolidate, and then UK will run a six to eight hour Slow Trend, and then US will reverse what UK does. But that's very, that's
[59:30] typical session, and that's actually based on the Forex rules. So with Crypto being volatile, the US doesn't necessarily reverse UK, it can continue the trend. And you know, Asia can, like they'll obviously switch. So you've got to, you've got to a pip on top of that. It's getting typical days. I mean, I don't know what you guys think, but it's not like super common. Super common. Well, that's how it feels sometimes. But yeah,
[60:00] I reckon we've had maybe 20 of them in 6 months, 20 normal days. Yeah, that's a normal day. Exactly. What time would you recommend beginners start learning the weekly? Weekly. 100% But at the moment with Bitcoin going sideways so often, it's a bit hard at the moment.
[60:30] And can you just show one more time for Greg the object tree sliding up to the top? Yeah. So like Trade by Design method will be here. Just put it at the top above whatever ticker you're using, or you can go up to, where'd it go? There. Or you can go up here and you can go to visual order, and bring
[61:00] to front, and that will also send it to the top. Thank you. And then Katie's asked, any talks today about new Traders trading ETH? As it is clearer, and percentages are better. What do you think? So I think Annii said like from the beginning, ETH follows this method beautifully, really well, and it's often clearer, and it does give better better returns. So definitely, like I trade ETH
[61:30] just as much as I trade Bitcoin, sometimes more. I recommend charting both every day, because also ETH is not just following Bitcoin anymore. So I guess you know, there might have been a point where it's like, they're kind of doing the same thing, may as well just chart Bitcoin, but it's not really the case at the moment. So yes, I would highly recommend that.
[62:00] Can you move the US session forward about five, six hours? Yeah, that'd be nice. I wish. Okay Claire's answered Greg. Done that. Okay, that's the end of the questions at the moment. Is there anything that we haven't covered or any questions coming to mind for anyone? Sorry for the overload tonight, but it's good to get the Indicator information out for everyone.
[62:30] How do you get the background sessions? Yeah show MM session times, full background color on the Market Maker Session Times Indicator. So not the new one, but the Market Session one. And then if you want to get rid of the dots, you just un-tick that one.
[63:00] Alright. Do you want to call it there? I think so. That's it. Thank you guys so much for joining us. Hopefully everyone's indicators are all working beautifully now. And it's just nice to have such a visually appealing chart, you know with everything's just there for you. You really don't have to draw much on. So hopefully it makes the charts easier for everyone to read as well.
[63:30] And obviously any questions, we're always around, so you can just ask away in Discord. Yeah. And I think yeah, that's it. Thank you very much. If you don't have the indicator, if you don't have the indicator yet, just message Man-bear-pig on Discord, and just make sure that your name's right on the website.
[64:00] And Claire's just said she's in the Indicator Channel too if there are any questions, thank you so much Claire. Thanks. You're the best. All right guys. Thank you. I shall see you at the US Open in 2 hours. Okay guys. See you guys. Thank you.
