# Lesson 03 — The VWAP and 255EMA

- **Source:** <https://tradetravelchill.club/lessons/the-vwap-and-255ema/>
- **Video:** Vimeo 964454828

## Materials

(No materials)

## Transcript

[00:00] Hi guys. So in this video I'm gonna show you how to set up ready for a potential scalping session for the day. So I'm going to remove my camera so that you can see the whole screen, but know that I am here. Now to start the day, we wanna start with the one hour chart. So you just click onto that side and then down here where you see these two arrows, click on that to expand that chart. The first thing you need to do is to just make note of where you are in the current cycle.
[00:30] So you wanna zoom out and find your last peak formation high or low. This down here would be the last peak formation low. And then count your levels from there. We can easily identify one through here, potentially a second through here, and then potentially a third here that has had three hits to the same level at this point in time. So this could be somewhere that is good to look for a potential reversal. However, also note that the high of the week is here
[01:00] and price is currently still above it. So it is a very tricky spot right now. And what you'll need to do is keep an eye on the candlesticks at this exact level because if it holds above it, there could be further levels to come. At the time that I'm filming this, this is also a news event day. So the actual levels could get tricky. If we break below it, it's gonna be a lot easier. We would expect further downside to come. Now if you have the TTC indicator, then you shouldn't need to mark really too much on your one hour chart,
[01:30] because they should all be marked for you. However, if you don't, you would wanna manually mark your high of the week. You would wanna mark within the last 24 to 48 hours any support level that you can find and any resistance level. Why you wanna mark that is because once you start going down to smaller timeframes, you can forget about these higher timeframe key levels. Now when marking lines on your one hour chart, you actually wanna come over here to this menu down the side.
[02:00] And on this paperclip icon, you actually want to click that on. Because just to show you, if I go back to the double screen, those two lines there that I put on the one hour, they don't show up on the five minute chart because I didn't sync them. Whereas now if I redo it because I've got that paperclip on, if I redo it, see how it shows up here? And then this one here will show up down here. So you want anything that you've drawn on your one hour
[02:30] chart to also show up on your smaller timeframe chart, as that's gonna be your key level. One other thing that is probably a good idea is to identify your levels by drawing in some text. You can also save your text as a template if you want to, but just again, because once you go down to a really small timeframe, you can get lost in remembering what's happening on the higher timeframe. So you could just mark it in whatever way you want. And then that will bring up that label there. And then it will also show here.
[03:00] So even if you forget to look left at what's happening on the higher timeframe, it's gonna be a reminder here. So we'll mark both of those. And now for this period of time here, you know clearly the range that you're playing in, and you wanna pay attention to what's happening within that range right there. Whilst that is a small range on the one hour timeframe, if we take our measuring tool for the five minute timeframe, it's a 3% range, which is an excellent range for scalp trading.
[03:30] Anything above 2%, you can make some fairly decent money. Another thing you wanna take note of just on the one hour timeframe before we move anywhere is what's happening on the RSI? See if you can notice any divergences that are just forming or anything like that because again, that's gonna help give you a bit of a heads up if a reversal is coming. So with the RSI on this particular occasion, we currently have lower lows, but we have actually higher highs. So we actually do have a divergence on this right now.
[04:00] And that's just another thing you want to note. Price is also currently still above the 255 EMA. You don't really pay attention to the vwap for the one hour timeframe. The vwap is only relevant on 15 minute timeframes and lower. So really we're just checking to see if the 255 EMA is acting as support or resistance in the current trend. In this case, because the 255 EMA is below price, it is currently acting as support.
[04:30] So we've got price holding above the 250 EMA, we've got a RSI divergence, and we've currently got the high of the week holding as support. It's a bit of conflict in what is going on here, but once one of the decisions is made, it's gonna give us a good scalping opportunity. So moving on from that, first things first, even though we're scalping on the five minute, we want to have a look at the 15 minute just so again we know what's going on, because this divergence here that we identified could already be in play.
[05:00] So if we have a look at the 15 minute, we can see that it is, because these two highs were created as a double top. And this here is a lower high. So that essentially could be your M formation right here, and this could be the lower high after it. But the thing with this scalping method is we're not really trying to catch the very tops and the very bottoms, not like we would do with the normal TBD system. In this one we're looking for a trend to be confirmed before we get in.
[05:30] And the reason for that is because we're gonna have such a tight stop-loss that we wanna prove that either the VWAP or the 255 EMA is acting as our support or resistance, because it's gonna help us know where to put our stop-loss. So a couple of rules once you jump down to the 15 minute or the five minute timeframe, whichever one you want to scalp on for the day, if price is between the 250 EMA and the VWAP, that's considered a No Trade zone. So that's where price is currently.
[06:00] What you would have to wait for is price to break down below the 255 EMA, come back to retest it, and then you would have a chance of taking short positions from that point on. Or the other way, price comes back above the vwap, retest that, then you have a chance to take long positions up to the top. So according to the 15 minute timeframe, this is currently a no trade zone. So if we go to the five minute timeframe, now we're in a bit of a better situation because we can see here that the top was created,
[06:30] this was a lower high. After that top, we've broken down below both the VWAP and the 255 EMA. Now we're in the situation where they may be retesting. So once price has changed a trend and it's coming back for a retest, this here is actually not a trade entry because price came back above before it failed. A trade entry for this type of method has to be very, very strict. When price comes back to the EMA or the VWAP, it has to fail it before you would take a short back down.
[07:00] So this would not qualify because it did get back above, then it failed. We want price to stay under it, and we wanna see the 255 and the vwap start to trend down. Right? Now we know we have a trend and we're gonna get a much better scalp out of it. So the conditions in order to have a high win rate are very, very strict. But essentially on a setup like this, what you would be looking for is to get an entry as close to the vwap and the 255 EMA as possible. Your stop-loss would only need to go just above it,
[07:30] and your take profit should be back down in this case at the previous high of the week. 'Cause we know that that's acting as support. This tiny little trade here is a 4.5:1 risk to reward. Now some other things that you need to know about the VWAP and the 255 EMA is once we start a strong trend, they're likely to move away from each other. Like you can see here, there was a fairly wide gap, and you can see here as well. So as price moved away, there was a fairly large gap here.
[08:00] Ideally when you're setting your stop-loss, if it's for a short position, you wanna have your stop-loss above both of them. And if it's for a long position, you wanna have your stop-loss below both of them. But once they start to fan out like this, that's going to give you a really bad risk to reward. So like I showed you here, on a trade setup like this, you would be able to have a very small stop-loss because the 255 and the VWAP are both very close together. So this would be an easy setup.
[08:30] However, if you were trying to get in an entry after this move and it came back, that would mean that, let's just say you thought this was the retrace, your stop loss has to go all the way down here. So this is the same situation. So that's only a 1.7:1 risk to reward. This is the same situation as the TBD system. You're gonna make more profits the pickier you are. So don't chase trades. Don't break the rules. If the EMAs and the VWAP aren't close together, then you've got two choices.
[09:00] One of them is stay out until they come closer together, and that can take hours and that is the way it is with scalping. Your other option is that you pick one. So, and there's not really anything wrong with that. It just depends on if you pick it correctly. So for example, if these two moved away here and now we have a trend change, you could have taken a position here, right? After we came back here. I'm gonna talk about the RSI probably in the next video, but for now this meets the entry condition.
[09:30] So any trade here would have been a really good entry. However, you're only clearing the VWAP in this situation because price was under the 255 EMA. So that kind of takes a bit more experience 'cause you would have to be confident that the structure has changed. So the trend came from a downtrend here and the structure changed here with a bit of a W formation like this. And then it came up and created a higher low and that higher low held the vwap.
[10:00] So even though it was under the 255 EMA, this is uh, a good, all the other conditions were met in order to take this trade. But this is a case where you can't have your stop-loss clearing both, because that would mean your entry has to be up here. And it's still a decent trade. It's 3.4:1 trade, but with scalping the goal is to be as aggressive as possible. So down here you get a 7.7:1 risk to reward trade. So just know that you have two options. For the point of learning this, I don't recommend you take trades when the 255 EMA
[10:30] and the vwap are too far apart, but as your confidence grows, you would be able to take setups like this. And it's just a matter of you saying, I'm only gonna use one of them. And that's okay as well. Once you understand this method and you've had some success with it, you actually don't need both the vwap and the 255. They just add extra confluence. You can decide which one you want to use and get rid of the other one. But I just wouldn't rush into doing something like that. Use the extra confirmation for now to get profitable.
[11:00] Another thing you need to know about the vwap is that at the daily open every day it resets. So you can see here how there's a sharp bounce in the VWAP right there. If you are trading over the Dead Gap zone, that can be something that completely invalidates your trade as it does this full reset. So just be aware of trying to trade over that session. You're better off waiting for Asia to set one of the highs and lows. So it doesn't have to set both, especially in Asia because it generally ranges.
[11:30] You just wanna be certain that it has set one of them. So as soon as you believe it's set the initial high of the day here with a really nice inverted hammer, you are free to trade. Because if it has set the initial high of the day, it's likely on its way down to set the initial low of the day next and vice versa. Besides that period of the day, you also have to keep very close eye on the time that you're trading, and be very, very careful of price action in the last 10 minutes of any one hour candle.
[12:00] Because the last 10 minutes of a one hour candle is where they're trying to get the candle to close a certain way in order to paint a picture of what's happening on the one hour timeframe in order to get people to believe whatever narrative. So if you're in an open trade, the last 10 minutes of a trade can help get you to your profit much sooner. There's no need to exit before that time period. However, if you are in a trade that's going well and it's looking like it's starting to swing around and then you notice the time is the last 10 minutes of
[12:30] that one hour candle, exit the trade. Because it could swing so fast that it comes right back to your entry or hits your stop-loss. And it will simply just be because it's that last 10 minute of a one hour candle. So in this example right here as I'm filming this, it's actually 2:45 PM. So if this spikes up and takes 10, you know, the next 15 minutes to spike up, it might actually give me my entry. But ideally I wanna see that one hour candle close before I get in. Why? Because the one hour candle close could also do
[13:00] something like this, change the trend, and then from there I need to flip to have a bullish bias and start looking for long positions. So your key times not to trade or to be careful of trading is the daily open, only for you know, 10, 15 minutes. And the last 10 minutes of a one hour candle. The best times to trade are after the initial high or the initial low of the day has been set. And the next best time to trade is likely going to be around session changeovers again, so around Asia into UK,
[13:30] or UK into US. The Dead Gap zone can bring high volatility if you're on the right side of it. It can also be a great time to trade, but just be careful holding that trade into the daily open.
