# Lesson 05 — When Not to Trade This Strategy

- **Source:** <https://tradetravelchill.club/lessons/not-to-trade-strategy/>
- **Video:** Vimeo 964461598

## Materials

(No materials)

## Transcript

[00:00] Now in the last video I showed you, where is the ideal place to take your entries for longs and shorts. In this video I'm going to show you how to identify when it's actually a bad time to trade, because at the end of the day, in order to scalp and hit our targets very quickly, we need to have a trend. And because we are using things like the 255 EMA and the vwap, these are based on trends as well. So they're gonna work best when price is in a trend.
[00:30] So as I discussed earlier, when you are looking for long positions, you wanna see the VWAP and the 250 EMA trend upwards and price holding above it. When you're looking for short positions, you wanna see the 255 and the vwap trending downwards and price below it. But besides the EMAs trending up and the EMAs also trending down, in this transitional period here, you'll often find that they just flatten out,
[01:00] and price goes up above, down below, up above, down below. And it's very, very tricky. So if you're trying to take longs or shorts in this period here during the trend changeover, you're gonna increase how often you actually lose your trades. So let's have a look at this on a real chart. You can see here that it was a clear uptrend, this was an M formation, started changing into a downtrend. Now from there, when we continue on, see how the 255 EMA starts to become quite horizontal
[01:30] and so does the vwap. So anytime the 255 EMA or the VWAP is not actually trending and it's flattening out instead that means we're in a consolidation period. So you shouldn't be looking for entries. Even if you get the RSI coming to overbought or oversold, you need to wait for a trend to be chosen. So this whole period of time here is not actually a good scalp session.
[02:00] And if we measure all that out, that's 13 hours. So it is an entire day of not actually having a good scalp really at all. And unfortunately that's part of the game with scalping. So that's why it's better to look for this type of trades when there's high volatility, when there's a news event, when you can easily identify a trend. But even still, if you just come to your chart at the start of the day and the EMA
[02:30] and the VWAP is sideways like this, it's an immediate non scalp day and you can just come back to check towards the end of the next session. Or once Asia has put in its initial high or low, you know the time's to come back to the chart to actually check for a trade. You do not have to sit here for 13 hours waiting for a trade when you can see that the EMAs are clearly horizontal. And this was my past, and that's why I've done a whole dedicated Video on when not to trade this method
[03:00] or really any method. Because at the end of the day, you need a trend to trade. You know, whether that trend is on a higher timeframe or a lower timeframe, you need a trend. So when price is literally going sideways, your EMA and your vwap give you the immediate indication that this isn't it, go do something else you know. You come back and check at um, other sessions. And coincidentally, if I zoom out on this, you can see this was a weekend and that's why we had the sideways price action.
[03:30] Now you should know actually with this method you can trade it on the weekends. It just depends if there's volatility. So come to your chart when you feel like trading, first thing you do is check out your vwap and your EMAs. If they're sideways, go do something else that day, or for a few hours at a minimum and come back and check a little bit later. There's no need to sit through this and watch this whilst it actually, you know, does nothing. Eventually a decision gets made. And we can see that here where we had the daily open,
[04:00] the VWAP changed there, and then we broke through, we retested, now we have something worse scalping. And it just so happens that the market was open. If you had have missed that retest, you had another opportunity here as Asia closed and UK was opening right in the Gap, there was a session there. So everything about session times is still gonna present you with the best time to trade. The only advantage that this method has over the traditional TBD system is that scalping is actually good in Asia.
[04:30] Whereas with the TBD system, we usually use Asia just to set the initial high and the low of the day and we don't tend to actually trade it. So now you've got a method you can trade in Asia in addition to UK and US because as we know, UK runs a trend, then US comes in, and look at this typical day here, US comes in, it either continues the trend depending on the Market Maker's targets or it reverses. So you could have scalped Asia here after this retest.
[05:00] You could have scalped UK 'cause it ran a trend. And you could have scalped US because it also ran a trend. How you switch between the two methods is up to you. Once you become good at knowing so many methods, you have so many options, because this for example, you had a good Asia scalp, you had a good UK scalp, now you can see an M formation. Maybe you wanna switch back to the TBD system. Because on the TBD system, you would get your short entry here, you can trade that back on the five minute for you know, your three level drops or
[05:30] however you wanna do it. And then it's a new day, you switch back, the initial low of the day is in, in Asia, you're waiting for price to get back above and retest the vwap, which it did right here. Now you're in a scalp to the long, and so on and so forth. So it really just depends how much time you have. When do you hold off? When price starts to look like it wants to cross the other side of the VWAP and the EMA. So here is a No Trade zone. Here, look how we start to flatten out and go sideways. No Trade zone. And even now, uh, as I'm filming this,
[06:00] we are flattening out and going sideways. No Trade zone. And the price is literally right on the VWAP and the um, the VWAP and the EMA. Another place that you would be careful about opening new positions would be if you got the signal on the five minute timeframe to go long. But on the one hour timeframe, the price was very close to resistance. So let's just pretend in this example that price was here, right here, and that would look like this on the five minute timeframe.
[06:30] But you got everything you needed. Let's just say that the VWAP started to do this and the EMA did this, and the RSI did this. Now you've got all your three confirmations to go long. However, if you open a long position here, where's your target? Your target has to be to resistance and your stop loss, depending on what the candle structure was at the time, you know, it could end up being only a 2:1 risk to reward, because you can't guarantee that we're gonna break that resistance.
[07:00] Not to mention, in order to break that, there's also a key level here, which is the initial high of the day, which really should be your first target for the scalp. So now you've got an even worse risk to reward. So best times to trade is gonna be longs off support as long as they line up with the EMA and the VWAP. Also, with the one hour VWAP here being below the support, that's great. Or shorts from above once it's started to move away from the resistance. Another area, if it's not at the support
[07:30] or resistance, is the middle of the range, because you can still get a good trade from there. For example, if this flipped long now, you could have your stop-loss just below this structure here where it held. Let's just say you had your break and retest of it. Even if your target was just to the initial high of the day, that's a 5:1 trade. If it broke that and went to the actual resistance, it's nearly a 7:1 trade. But when you look at the one hour timeframe right here, see how price is right in the middle of support and resistance? So you can take trades in the middle of the area if that's
[08:00] where the vwap is, but don't take longs. If price is close to resistance. Don't take shorts if price is close to support. Unless they break them, then you can. But within where you've drawn support and resistance, you don't wanna be doing that.
